retester: Added retester page (#242)
openshift/ci-docs: content/en/docs/architecture/retester.md

---
title: "Retester"
description: An overview of the retester implementation.
---
## What Is Retester?
Retester is a tool that evaluate which pull requests should be retested, and then retest. 

## How Do We Set up Retester?
No configuration needed. Retester completely reuses [`tide`](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/prow/cmd/tide/README.md) configuration, whatever onboards to Tide,
 gets onboarded to retester too.
Retester is aware of Prow and the concept of optional and required jobs. It only triggers retests on PRs
 where at least one required Prow job is failing.

> ### General configuration

Reviewer: We have not implemented those yet.
Remove this section for now and add it back after supporting it.

---
title: "Retester"
description: An overview of the retester implementation.
---
## What Is Retester?
Retester is a tool that evaluate which pull requests should be retested, and then retest 
by [@openshift-ci-robot](https://github.com/openshift-ci-robot) 's commenting `/retest-required` on the pull requests.

> 

Reviewer: Add a description about the old implementation and how it works.

Reviewer: {{< alert title="Info" color="info" >}}
The old retester is implemented by a periodic job [periodic-retester](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/05dd9a1ab5881e55165a0cc0f40d5513e2e2fd11/ci-operator/jobs/infra-periodics.yaml#L260-L300) which uses a GitHub query to filter out the pull requests with failing jobs and a Prow tool [commenter](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/tree/master/robots/commenter) to comment on those pull request. The same query is applied to all GitHub repos and thus it does not recognize any criteria for Prow's auto-merging tool, [Tide](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/tree/master/prow/cmd/tide).
{{< /alert >}}

## How Do We Set up Retester?
Retester completely reuses [`tide`](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/prow/cmd/tide/README.md) 
configuration, whatever onboards to Tide, gets onboarded to retester too.
Retester is aware of Prow and the concept of optional and required jobs. It only triggers retests on PRs 
where at least one required Prow job is failing.

> We need to enable repository by adding a flag `--enable-on-repo=<org>/<repo>` to [the retester's deployment](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/master/clusters/app.ci/prow/03_deployment/retester.yaml) and exclude it from [the old retester](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/05dd9a1ab5881e55165a0cc0f40d5513e2e2fd11/ci-operator/jobs/infra-periodics.yaml#L260-L300) by `-repo:<org>/<repo>` in the `query`. The following example shows how to achieve it for repo `openshift/ci-tools`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can enable the retester on a repository by adding a flag `--enable-on-repo=<org>/<repo>` to [the retester's deployment](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/master/clusters/app.ci/prow/03_deployment/retester.yaml) and exclude it from [the old retester](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/05dd9a1ab5881e55165a0cc0f40d5513e2e2fd11/ci-operator/jobs/infra-periodics.yaml#L260-L300) by `-repo:<org>/<repo>` in the `query`. The following example shows how to achieve it for repo `openshift/ci-tools`:
```

---
title: "Retester"
description: An overview of the retester implementation.
---
## What Is Retester?
Retester is a tool that evaluate which pull requests should be retested, and then selected pull requests retest 
by [@openshift-ci-robot](https://github.com/openshift-ci-robot) 's commenting `/retest-required` on the pull requests.

## How Do We Set up Retester?
Retester completely reuses [`tide`](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/prow/cmd/tide/README.md) 
configuration, whatever onboards to Tide, gets onboarded to retester too.
Retester is aware of Prow and the concept of optional and required jobs. It only triggers retests on PRs 
where at least one required Prow job is failing.

> We need to enable repository on the retester's deployment and remove it from the old retester.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to enable repository by adding a flag `--enable-on-repo=<org>/<repo>` to [the retester's deployment](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/master/clusters/app.ci/prow/03_deployment/retester.yaml) and exclude it from [the old retester](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/05dd9a1ab5881e55165a0cc0f40d5513e2e2fd11/ci-operator/jobs/infra-periodics.yaml#L260-L300) by `-repo:<org>/<repo>` in the `query`. The following example shows how to achieve it for repo `openshift/ci-tools`:
```

{{< highlight yaml >}}
  spec:
    containers:
    - image: retester:latest
      name: retester
      command:
      - retester
      args:
      - --config-path=/etc/config/config.yaml
      - --supplemental-prow-config-dir=/etc/config
      - --dry-run=false
      - --job-config-path=/etc/job-config

>       - --cache-file=/cache/backoff

Reviewer: ```
      - --config-path=/etc/config/config.yaml
      - --supplemental-prow-config-dir=/etc/config
      - --dry-run=false
      - --job-config-path=/etc/job-config
      - --cache-file=/cache/backoff
   ```

--->

```
...
```

>       - --enable-on-repo=openshift/ci-tools       #Add this line in new retester's deployment

Reviewer: Does it support regex, e.g., `--enable-on-repo=openshift/*`? Or `--enable-on-org`?

Author: No it's only `--enable-on-repo=<org>/<repo>` but you can use this command multiple times.

Reviewer: Could you please create a card for this? Because we are going to enable it on the openshift org.

Author: created: [DPTP-2853](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/DPTP-2853)

>       - --enable-on-repo=openshift/ci-tools       #Add this line in new retester's deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - --enable-on-repo=openshift/ci-tools       # Enable the retester on repo openshift/ci-tools
```

{{< / highlight >}}

{{< highlight yaml >}}
  name: periodic-retester
  spec:
    containers:
    - args:
      - --query=is:pr state:open label:lgtm label:approved status:failure comments:<2500

>         NOT "consistent with ART" -label:do-not-merge -label:do-not-merge/work-in-progress

Reviewer: ```
NOT "consistent with ART" -label:do-not-merge -label:do-not-merge/work-in-progress
        -label:do-not-merge/hold -label:needs-rebase -label:needs-ok-to-test org:openshift
        org:openshift-priv repo:operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager repo:operator-framework/operator-marketplace
        repo:operator-framework/operator-registry repo:cri-o/cri-o repo:kubevirt-ui/kubevirt-plugin
```

--->

```
...
```

        -label:do-not-merge/hold -label:needs-rebase -label:needs-ok-to-test org:openshift
        org:openshift-priv repo:operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager repo:operator-framework/operator-marketplace
        repo:operator-framework/operator-registry repo:cri-o/cri-o repo:kubevirt-ui/kubevirt-plugin

>         -repo:openshift/ci-tools                  #Remove this line in old retester

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        -repo:openshift/ci-tools                  # Exclude repo openshift/ci-tools
```
